1. What is Automation Testing?

Automation testing is the process of automating the execution of test cases through scripts and/or specialized tools.
Instead of having a human tester manually executing test case by test case, these scripts and tools directly command
the Application Under Test (AUT) to perform all of the required actions, freeing up bandwidth for testers to focus more
on more strategic activities.

The concept of Automation Testing is not strictly limited to the Execution phase, although it is generally understood
and accepted in the testing community that automation testing means “automatically executing a test case”.
Automation testing can actually be an umbrella term referring to the “automation of any testing activity across
the testing life cycle”.

2. Benefits of Automation Testing

Automation testing is the best way to enhance effectiveness, broaden test coverage, and improve execution speed in
software testing. There are several reasons why Automation Testing is crucial:

Improved Accuracy: Automation testing reduces the likelihood of human errors as automated tests are designed to
strictly follow a set of predefined steps. Automated tests eliminate the chances of human testers introducing errors
like forgetting a certain step while executing the tests.

Increased Speed: Automated tests can run continuously, in parallel, 24/7, without the need for human intervention,
further increasing the speed of test execution and reducing the overall testing time.

Consistency: A lack of testing consistency and standardization can result in missing important issues. In continuous
testing scenarios, say triggering regular regression test runs, automation suites are indispensable. With automation
testing, test cases are executed in exactly the same way every time they are run. They can also be run multiple
times a day, ensuring that new issues are quickly identified and resolved, leading to improved confidence
in the software quality.

Cost Savings: Projects dealing with more advanced infrastructures or a variety of application types see
the highest automation ROI. The costs of time, technologies and human resources are often the biggest blockers to
automation adoption. Not only pertaining to software test automation, setting up and standardizing automated workflows
don’t happen overnight. However, the long-term ROI in accuracy, speed, and consistency is guaranteed.

Enhanced Test Coverage: Automated test suites can be reused to run against multiple browsers, devices and operating
systems combinations. Instead of performing the exact test steps over and over again, simply lock down the most
 common environment your users are accessing and press run.

Improved Test Reusability: Once automated tests are created, they can be stored and reused across multiple systems
with the click of a button, and testers do not need to spend time re-creating and executing tests for each testing cycle.

Continuous Testing: Automated tests can be run frequently and at any stage of the development process,
whether it's during the development phase, integration phase, or after deployment. They can even be integrated into
the development pipeline, so that they are run automatically every time new changes are made to the software.